---
excerpt: "An alternative embedded development environment with VS-Code"
author_profile: true
title: "My embedded development environment for STM32"
categories:
  - Embedded
tags:
  - vscode
  - embedded
  - gnu
  - gcc
  - stm
  - cubemx
  - cubeprogrammer

last_modified_at: 2022-01-02
toc: true
toc_label: "Menu"
toc_icon: "columns"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/env_stm32/Header.PNG
  teaser: /assets/images/env_stm32/Header.PNG
  overlay_filter: 0.5
--- 

The default Toolchain and Development-Tools from STM for STM32 are great. They have almost everything I need for developing embedded software on the STM32 microcontrollers. However, I really like the modern look of Visual Studio Code (VSC). If you are bored of the Eclipse-based IDE like STM32CubeIDE, you are like me. Even though VSC is a source-code-editor, it can be used as a powerful IDE with the right Plugins and settings. Another advantage of using independent *IDE* like VSC is the cross-plattform ability. You can use VSC on Windows, Linux or MAC. You can use VSC for development of different kind of Microcontrollers from different providers. 

Now, i will show you my current settings for Visual Studio Code for developing embedded software on STM32 Plattform. In the next time, i will talk about ESP32 or Arduino Boards. 

# Tools
First of all, lets look through the following list of tools that I'm using right now: 
  - **STM32CubeProgrammer** for loading binary firmware to the MCU
  - **STM32CubeMX** for the Pin-Configuration and Code-Generation
  - **STM32CubeIDE** for it's debugging toolchain
  -** Vistual Studio Code** with the following Plugins: 
      - C/C++ Extension Pack, which includes 9 necessary Plugins for developing C/C++
      - **Cortex-Debug** to debug and download binaries on to ARM-Cortex MCUs
  - **GNU ARM Embedded Toolchain**: Take a look at the [ARM-Developer Website](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/developer-tools/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads). On Windows, you can download the ``.exe`` installer. On Linux and MAC, take a look at [this article](https://mynewt.apache.org/latest/get_started/native_install/cross_tools.html)

  - On Windows, you will need ``make`` or ``cmake`` program to build automatically executable programs, or in the case of embedded, binary firmware. You have multiple choices for the ``make`` tool. I use both ``msys2`` and ``wsl2`` on my Windows10 laptop, so that I can get used to the Linux development environment. An Advantage of WSL2 is that Visual Studio Code can open inside this environment with the ``Remote-WSL`` Plugins from Microsoft. 

The installtion of STM32Cube Programs require an account on the STM Website. Download and install them all by default. If you change the installtion path of STMCubeIDE, the Plugin Cortex-debug cannot find what it needs to start the debugger server.

In the next part, I will show you a BlinkLED Firmware that work on VSCode with this above tools. 

# BlinkLED on STM32F3-Discovery